README.md, before:

# Ontology-Based APIs (OBA) [![Test](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.6639554.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6639554)

OBA reads ontologies (OWL) and generates an OpenAPI Specification (OAS). Using this definition, OBA creates a REST API server automatically.

![Diagram](docs/figures/oba.svg) 

## Quickstart

There are two option to run OBA:

1. Download the binary.
2. Build the binary from the repository.


### Downloading binary

1. Go the [latest release](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/releases/latest)
2. Download the file with extension .jar

### Building binary

1. Clone the repository `git clone https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA.git`
2. Install it using `mvn package`
3. The binary is available in the `target` directory

## Running

1. Create the OBA config file (config.yaml) from one of the [sample configuration files in the examples folder](examples/modelcatalog/config.yaml)
2. Use the configuration to run OBA with the following command:

```bash
$ java -jar oba-*-jar-with-dependencies.jar -c config.yaml
```

Congratulations! You have generated an Open Api Specification.

For instructions on using OBA to create your API server, go to the [documentation](https://oba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Citation
Please cite our work as follows:

```
@inproceedings{garijo2020OBA,
	title        = {{OBA}: An Ontology-Based Framework for Creating REST APIs for Knowledge Graphs},
	author       = {Garijo, Daniel and Osorio, Maximiliano},
	booktitle={International Semantic Web Conference},
	pages={48--64},
	year={2020},
    doi={https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-62466-8_4},
	organization = {Springer, Cham},
    isbn={978-3-030-62466-8}
}
```

Commit message:

updated dependencies/plugins; plus junit updates (#173)
* updated dependencies/plugins; plus junit updates

* Java 8 doesn't build in Github due to a dependency.  Use 11 instead.

* @Disabled ignored without plugin

README.md, after:

# Ontology-Based APIs (OBA) [![Test](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.6639554.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6639554)

OBA reads ontologies (OWL) and generates an OpenAPI Specification (OAS). Using this definition, OBA creates a REST API server automatically.

![Diagram](docs/figures/oba.svg)

## Quickstart

There are two option to run OBA:

1. Download the binary.
2. Build the binary from the repository.

### Pre-requisites

Due to recent versions of the OpenAPI generator being built with Java 11, you will need Java 11 or higher to run OBA v3.7.0. The current recommended distribution of Java 11+ JDKs (and "JREs") is at [Adoptium's releases page](https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=11).

Java versions higher than 11 are also available to use. Java 11 is simply the minimum version.

### Downloading binary

1. Go the [latest release](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/releases/latest)
2. Download the file with extension .jar

### Building binary

1. Clone the repository `git clone https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA.git`
2. Install it using `mvn package`
3. The binary is available in the `target` directory

## Running

1. Create the OBA config file (config.yaml) from one of the [sample configuration files in the examples folder](examples/modelcatalog/config.yaml)
2. Use the configuration to run OBA with the following command:

```bash
$ java -jar oba-*-jar-with-dependencies.jar -c config.yaml
```

Congratulations! You have generated an Open Api Specification.

For instructions on using OBA to create your API server, go to the [documentation](https://oba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Citation

Please cite our work as follows:

```
@inproceedings{garijo2020OBA,
	title        = {{OBA}: An Ontology-Based Framework for Creating REST APIs for Knowledge Graphs},
	author       = {Garijo, Daniel and Osorio, Maximiliano},
	booktitle={International Semantic Web Conference},
	pages={48--64},
	year={2020},
    doi={https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-62466-8_4},
	organization = {Springer, Cham},
    isbn={978-3-030-62466-8}
}
```
