docs/configuration_file.md, before:

# Configuration File

OBA supports configuring your documentation builds with a YAML file.

Below is an example YAML file which may require some changes for your project's configuration:

You can find examples in [GitHub](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/tree/master/examples)

!!! info
If you experience any issues when using OBA, or if you would like us to support additional exciting features, please open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/issues).

```yaml
#Name of the project
name: dbpedia_music

## OpenAPI Section
### Name, version and URL of the OpenAPI
### For more information about the section. Go to the official documentation
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: http://dbpedia.org/
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0

## Ontologies
### List of ontologies
ontologies:
  - https://tinyurl.com/dbpediaoba

## SPARQL information
endpoint:
  url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
  prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource

## Filter the paths by methods
enable_get_paths: true
enable_post_paths: false
enable_delete_paths: false
enable_put_paths: false

## For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen).  Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case
use_kebab_case_paths: false

## Select the classes to add in the API
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

follow_references: false

## Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema
default_descriptions: true

## Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema
default_properties: true

## Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions
always_generate_arrays: true

## Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1)
required_properties_from_cardinality: false
```

## Supported settings

### name

The name of OpenAPI

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |

Example:

```yaml
name: dbpedia_music
```

### output_dir

The output directory of the OpenApi specification files, relative to the root of the project.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Default:**  | `outputs` |

Example:

```yaml
output_dir: outputs
```

Te generate the OpenAPI spec files as JSON, use the `generate_json_file` flag set to `true`.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

```yaml
generate_json_file: true
```

### OpenAPI

Basic information of API using OpenAPI Spec.
More info: [OpenAPI Base file](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/basic-structure/)

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `true`    |
| **Type:**     | `OpenAPI` |

Example:

```yaml
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: http://dbpedia.org/
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0
```

### enable_get_paths

Enable the GET method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `true`    |

### enable_post_paths:

Enable the POST method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### enable_delete_paths

Enable the DELETE method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### enable_put_paths

Enable the PUT method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### use_kebab_case_paths

For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen). Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#use_kebab_case_paths)

```yaml
use_kebab_case_paths: true
```

### endpoint

Example

```yaml
endpoint:
  url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
  prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource
  # Add the GRAPH clause. Enable it when you are using authentication.
  # OBA uses a graph to store the user contents on a personal namespace.
  # For DBpedia, dont use it.
  graph: http://endpoint.mint.isi.edu/modelCatalog-1.4.0/data/
```

### endpoint.url

The url of the SPARQL Endpoint

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
```

### endpoint.prefix

The prefix of the SPARQL Endpoint.
This is useful when you create a new resource.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource
```

### endpoint.graph_base

OBA uses a graph to store the user contents on a personal namespace.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
graph_base: http://ontosoft.isi.edu:3030/modelCatalog-1.2.0/data/
```

## ontologies

Example:

```yaml
ontologies:
  - https://tinyurl.com/dbpediaoba
```

| Field         | Value          |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| **Required:** | `true`         |
| **Type:**     | `List[string]` |

## custom_queries_directory

| Field         | Value        |
| ------------- | ------------ |
| **Required:** | `false`      |
| **Type:**     | `List[Path]` |

[Go to how to add custom queries](adding_custom_queries.md) for more information

## filtering

Some ontologies contain numerous classes. However, you can be interested in a subgroup. OBA can filter the classes.

### classes

| Field         | Value       |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| **Required:** | `false`     |
| **Type:**     | `List[URI]` |

```yaml
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band
```

### follow_references

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#following-references)

```yaml
follow_references: false
```

### use_inheritance_references

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#use_inheritance_references)

```yaml
use_inheritance_references: false
```

### default_descriptions

Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#default_descriptions)

```yaml
default_descriptions: false
```

### default_properties

Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#default_properties)

```yaml
default_properties: false
```

### always_generate_arrays

Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#always_generate_arrays)

```yaml
always_generate_arrays: true
```

### required_properties_from_cardinality

Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1).

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#required_properties_from_cardinality)

```yaml
required_properties_from_cardinality: true
```

## auth

Add login to the API and add security to the following methods: `POST`, `PUT` and `DELETE`

### provider

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `str`  |

The providers supported:

- Firebase

## Providers

### firebase

You can use firebase to login

```
firebase:
  key: google_key
```

### firebase.key

To authenticate a service account and authorize it to access Firebase services, you must generate a private key file.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `str`  |

```
firebase:
  key: google_key
```

Commit message:

update documentation with comments and inheritance reference

docs/configuration_file.md, after:

# Configuration File

OBA supports configuring your documentation builds with a YAML file.

Below is an example YAML file which may require some changes for your project's configuration:

You can find examples in [GitHub](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/tree/master/examples)

!!! info
If you experience any issues when using OBA, or if you would like us to support additional exciting features, please open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/OBA/issues).

```yaml
#Name of the project
name: dbpedia_music

## OpenAPI Section
### Name, version and URL of the OpenAPI
### For more information about the section. Go to the official documentation
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: http://dbpedia.org/
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0

## Ontologies
### List of ontologies
ontologies:
  - https://tinyurl.com/dbpediaoba

## SPARQL information
endpoint:
  url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
  prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource

## Filter the paths by methods
enable_get_paths: true
enable_post_paths: false
enable_delete_paths: false
enable_put_paths: false

## For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen).  Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case
use_kebab_case_paths: false

## Select the classes to add in the API
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

## REFERENCES
### Enable/disable schema references.  This can be recursive and cause multiple depths/levels of reference.
follow_references: false
### Enable/disable use of references for class/schema inheritance.
use_inheritance_references: false

## Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema
default_descriptions: true

## Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema
default_properties: true

## Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions
always_generate_arrays: true

## Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1)
required_properties_from_cardinality: false
```

## Supported settings

### name

The name of OpenAPI

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |

Example:

```yaml
name: dbpedia_music
```

### output_dir

The output directory of the OpenApi specification files, relative to the root of the project.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Default:**  | `outputs` |

Example:

```yaml
output_dir: outputs
```

Te generate the OpenAPI spec files as JSON, use the `generate_json_file` flag set to `true`.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

```yaml
generate_json_file: true
```

### OpenAPI

Basic information of API using OpenAPI Spec.
More info: [OpenAPI Base file](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/basic-structure/)

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `true`    |
| **Type:**     | `OpenAPI` |

Example:

```yaml
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: http://dbpedia.org/
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0
```

### enable_get_paths

Enable the GET method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `true`    |

### enable_post_paths:

Enable the POST method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### enable_delete_paths

Enable the DELETE method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### enable_put_paths

Enable the PUT method for the paths

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `false`   |

### use_kebab_case_paths

For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen). Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#use_kebab_case_paths)

```yaml
use_kebab_case_paths: true
```

### endpoint

Example

```yaml
endpoint:
  url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
  prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource
  # Add the GRAPH clause. Enable it when you are using authentication.
  # OBA uses a graph to store the user contents on a personal namespace.
  # For DBpedia, dont use it.
  graph: http://endpoint.mint.isi.edu/modelCatalog-1.4.0/data/
```

### endpoint.url

The url of the SPARQL Endpoint

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
url: http://dbpedia.org/sparql
```

### endpoint.prefix

The prefix of the SPARQL Endpoint.
This is useful when you create a new resource.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
prefix: http://dbpedia.org/resource
```

### endpoint.graph_base

OBA uses a graph to store the user contents on a personal namespace.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `url`  |

Example:

```yaml
graph_base: http://ontosoft.isi.edu:3030/modelCatalog-1.2.0/data/
```

## ontologies

Example:

```yaml
ontologies:
  - https://tinyurl.com/dbpediaoba
```

| Field         | Value          |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| **Required:** | `true`         |
| **Type:**     | `List[string]` |

## custom_queries_directory

| Field         | Value        |
| ------------- | ------------ |
| **Required:** | `false`      |
| **Type:**     | `List[Path]` |

[Go to how to add custom queries](adding_custom_queries.md) for more information

## filtering

Some ontologies contain numerous classes. However, you can be interested in a subgroup. OBA can filter the classes.

### classes

| Field         | Value       |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| **Required:** | `false`     |
| **Type:**     | `List[URI]` |

```yaml
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band
```

### follow_references

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#following-references)

```yaml
follow_references: false
```

### use_inheritance_references

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#use_inheritance_references)

```yaml
use_inheritance_references: false
```

### default_descriptions

Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#default_descriptions)

```yaml
default_descriptions: false
```

### default_properties

Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#default_properties)

```yaml
default_properties: false
```

### always_generate_arrays

Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions.

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `True`    |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#always_generate_arrays)

```yaml
always_generate_arrays: true
```

### required_properties_from_cardinality

Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1).

| Field         | Value     |
| ------------- | --------- |
| **Required:** | `false`   |
| **Type:**     | `Boolean` |
| **Default:**  | `False`   |

For more information, go to [filtering classes](filtering.md#required_properties_from_cardinality)

```yaml
required_properties_from_cardinality: true
```

## auth

Add login to the API and add security to the following methods: `POST`, `PUT` and `DELETE`

### provider

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `str`  |

The providers supported:

- Firebase

## Providers

### firebase

You can use firebase to login

```
firebase:
  key: google_key
```

### firebase.key

To authenticate a service account and authorize it to access Firebase services, you must generate a private key file.

| Field         | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| **Required:** | `true` |
| **Type:**     | `str`  |

```
firebase:
  key: google_key
```
