docs/filtering.md, before:

Some ontologies contain numerous classes. However, you can be interested in a subgroup.
OBA can filter the classes.

The following example is selecting two classes:

- http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
- http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

```yaml
### For more information about the section. Go to the official documentation
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: https://w3id.org/okn/o/sdm
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0

## Ontologies
### List of ontologies
ontologies:
  - https://gist.githubusercontent.com/mosoriob/cec147b24bd241295584dfcc21c21b93/raw/b6fa41ddf93212d967f35da20278f54d2ae2d40d/gistfile1.txt

## SPARQL information
endpoint:
  url: http://endpoint.mint.isi.edu/modelCatalog-1.2.0
  prefix: https://w3id.org/okn/i/mint
  graph_base: http://ontosoft.isi.edu:3030/modelCatalog-1.2.0/data/

## Filter the paths by methods
enable_get_paths: true
enable_post_paths: false
enable_delete_paths: false
enable_put_paths: false

## For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen).  Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case
use_kebab_case_paths: false

## Select the classes to add in the API
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

follow_references: false

## Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema
default_descriptions: true

## Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema
default_properties: true

## Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions
always_generate_arrays: true

## Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1)
required_properties_from_cardinality: false
```

The result is available at: [DBPedia Music](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/mosoriob/dbpedia-music/v1.3.0)

### Following references

If you inspect the properties of a Band, you can see the a Band has one or more locationCity. However, a locationCity is a object then you don't have information about the object.

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Band:
      properties:
        locationCity:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

The option `follow_references` enables OBA to follow the references when generating the OpenAPI spec.

For comparison, let's enable the option for the previous example.

Assume the following information is true for the ontology:

- A city has 423 properties.
- One property is `leaderName` and a `leaderName` is Person reference.
- A person has 285 properties.
- (this is **a lot** of properties to process)

!!! warning
For large ontologies, we don't recommend using the `follow_references` option because the result can be too heavy/large.

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Band:
      locationCity:
        items:
          $ref: "#/components/schemas/City"
        nullable: true
        type: array
    City:
      properties:
        cityType:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        irishName:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        reffBourgmestre:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        communityIsoCode:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        leaderName:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
    Person:
      properties:
        parent:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        viafId:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        competitionTitle:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/SportsEvent"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        artPatron:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Artist"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        hairColour:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

#### Using inheritance references

Enabling option `use_inheritance_references` only works if `follow_references` is also enabled (which it is by default - see above). Whereas `follow_references` allows `$ref` to be used to reference other schemas, `use_inheritance_references` allows references to parent/super classes to be used via the `allOf:` option for a class schema. This option can reduce the size of the OpenAPI spec at the cost of added OpenAPI parser/UI processing time.

For example, lets say that a `Doctor` is a subclass of a `Person`. The `Doctor` has one property `licenseDetails` and inherits all other properties from `Person`. If `use_inheritance_references` is disabled, then its schema will look like:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Doctor:
      properties:
        licenseDetails:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
        firstPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

Enabling option `use_inheritance_references` allows the `Person` schema to be referenced completely, so that the `Person`-specific properties only appear on the `Person` schema. The result looks like:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Doctor:
      allOf:
        - type: object
        - $ref: "#components/schemas/Person"
      properties:
        licenseDetails:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
    Person:
      properties:
        firstPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

In some cases, the subclass inherits a property and then has additional restrictions for the inherited property that do not exist on the parent/super class. In these situations, the entire property _will_ be copied to the subclass with all of the parent/super class property information _and_ the subclass's restrictions.

### Including default schema descriptions

It is generally good practice to include a high-level description for a schema. By default, a placeholder description is included with the text `Description not available`. For example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      description: Description not available
      properties: {}
      type: object
```

The option `default_descriptions` allows you to disable the default description for a schema (i.e. if there is no description/comment defined for an entity/class in the ontology). By setting the `default_descriptions` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties: {}
      type: object
```

### Including default schema properties

You may wish to include common properties for each even if not defined for the entity/class. Currently, the default properites that are added to each schema are `description`, `id`, `label`, and `type`. Additional default properties are included (`eventDateTime`, `quantity`, `isBool`) which are meant to provide examples are other common data types. For example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: string
        propertyB:
          type: integer
        eventDateTime:
          description: a date/time of the resource
          format: date-time
          nullable: true
          type: string
        quantity:
          description: a number quantity of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: number
        isBool:
          description: a boolean indicator of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: boolean
        description:
          description: small description
          nullable: true
          type: string
        label:
          description: short description of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: string
        id:
          description: identifier
          format: int32
          nullable: false
          type: integer
        type:
          description: type(s) of the resource
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `default_properties` allows you to disable the default properties for a schema. If one or more of the properties are defined for the class, however, the property will still be included in the OpenAPI YAML specification. By setting the `default_properties` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: string
        propertyB:
          type: integer
      type: object
```

### Generating property types as array of items uniformly vs. non-array when cardinality/restrictions warrant it

When a property can have multiple items (e.g. a list of names), the property schema will always generate `type: array` with an `items:` key and sub-item types (e.g. `type: string`). However, in cases where the property is restricted by cardinality, the API spec can be generated so that the property is not an array but a single type (e.g. `type: string`). These cases include cardinality where the property is exactly 1 or is a maximum of 1.

The default is to treat everything as an array, such as:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `always_generate_arrays` allows you to disable the generating all properties with an array of items, if the class restrictions warrant it (e.g. there is exactly one property value allowed). By setting the `always_generate_arrays` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

### Generating list of required property/properties for a class, when cardinality/restrictions warrant it

When a property is known to be required based on class restrictions (e.g. exactly 1 or a minimum >= 1), OpenAPI specification supports a `required` key directly under the property. By default, OBA does not generate this required list of properties (for each class), for example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `required_properties_from_cardinality` allows you to generate this list based on class restrictions (e.g. there is exactly one property value or there is a minimum of 1 or more of the property value). By setting the `required_properties_from_cardinality` value to `true`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
      required:
        - propertyA
```

Commit message:

update documentation with comments and inheritance reference

docs/filtering.md, after:

Some ontologies contain numerous classes. However, you can be interested in a subgroup.
OBA can filter the classes.

The following example is selecting two classes:

- http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
- http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

```yaml
### For more information about the section. Go to the official documentation
openapi:
  openapi: 3.0.1
  info:
    description: This is the API of the DBpedia Ontology
    title: DBpedia
    version: v1.3.0
  externalDocs:
    description: DBpedia
    url: https://w3id.org/okn/o/sdm
  servers:
    - url: https://dbpedia.oba.isi.edu/v1.3.0
    - url: http://localhost:8080/v1.3.0

## Ontologies
### List of ontologies
ontologies:
  - https://gist.githubusercontent.com/mosoriob/cec147b24bd241295584dfcc21c21b93/raw/b6fa41ddf93212d967f35da20278f54d2ae2d40d/gistfile1.txt

## SPARQL information
endpoint:
  url: http://endpoint.mint.isi.edu/modelCatalog-1.2.0
  prefix: https://w3id.org/okn/i/mint
  graph_base: http://ontosoft.isi.edu:3030/modelCatalog-1.2.0/data/

## Filter the paths by methods
enable_get_paths: true
enable_post_paths: false
enable_delete_paths: false
enable_put_paths: false

## For endpoint path names, use "kebab-case" case (all lowercase and separate words with a dash/hyphen).  Synonyms for "kebab-case" include: caterpillar-case, param-case, dash-case, hyphen-case, lisp-case, spinal-case and css-case
use_kebab_case_paths: false

## Select the classes to add in the API
classes:
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Genre
  - http://dbpedia.org/ontology/Band

## REFERENCES
### Enable/disable schema references.  This can be recursive and cause multiple depths/levels of reference.
follow_references: false
### Enable/disable use of references for class/schema inheritance.
use_inheritance_references: false

## Enable/disable generation of a default description for each schema
default_descriptions: true

## Enable/disable generation of default properties (description, id, label, and type) for each schema
default_properties: true

## Enable/disable generation of arrays for property type(s) all the time, regardless of cardinality / restrictions
always_generate_arrays: true

## Enable/disable generation of list of required properties for a schema, if the the cardinality indicates it is required (e.g. exactly 1)
required_properties_from_cardinality: false
```

The result is available at: [DBPedia Music](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/mosoriob/dbpedia-music/v1.3.0)

### Following references

If you inspect the properties of a Band, you can see the a Band has one or more locationCity. However, a locationCity is a object then you don't have information about the object.

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Band:
      properties:
        locationCity:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

The option `follow_references` enables OBA to follow the references when generating the OpenAPI spec.

For comparison, let's enable the option for the previous example.

Assume the following information is true for the ontology:

- A city has 423 properties.
- One property is `leaderName` and a `leaderName` is Person reference.
- A person has 285 properties.
- (this is **a lot** of properties to process)

!!! warning
For large ontologies, we don't recommend using the `follow_references` option because the result can be too heavy/large.

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Band:
      locationCity:
        items:
          $ref: "#/components/schemas/City"
        nullable: true
        type: array
    City:
      properties:
        cityType:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        irishName:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        reffBourgmestre:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        communityIsoCode:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        leaderName:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
    Person:
      properties:
        parent:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Person"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        viafId:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        competitionTitle:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/SportsEvent"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        artPatron:
          items:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/Artist"
          nullable: true
          type: array
        hairColour:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

#### Using inheritance references

Enabling option `use_inheritance_references` only works if `follow_references` is also enabled (which it is by default - see above). Whereas `follow_references` allows `$ref` to be used to reference other schemas, `use_inheritance_references` allows references to parent/super classes to be used via the `allOf:` option for a class schema. This option can reduce the size of the OpenAPI spec at the cost of added OpenAPI parser/UI processing time.

For example, lets say that a `Doctor` is a subclass of a `Person`. The `Doctor` has one property `licenseDetails` and inherits all other properties from `Person`. If `use_inheritance_references` is disabled, then its schema will look like:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Doctor:
      properties:
        licenseDetails:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
        firstPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

Enabling option `use_inheritance_references` allows the `Person` schema to be referenced completely, so that the `Person`-specific properties only appear on the `Person` schema. The result looks like:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Doctor:
      allOf:
        - type: object
        - $ref: "#components/schemas/Person"
      properties:
        licenseDetails:
          items:
            type: object
          nullable: true
          type: array
    Person:
      properties:
        firstPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
        ...
        ...etc..
        ...
        finalPersonProperty:
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
```

In some cases, the subclass inherits a property and then has additional restrictions for the inherited property that do not exist on the parent/super class. In these situations, the entire property _will_ be copied to the subclass with all of the parent/super class property information _and_ the subclass's restrictions.

### Including default schema descriptions

It is generally good practice to include a high-level description for a schema. By default, a placeholder description is included with the text `Description not available`. For example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      description: Description not available
      properties: {}
      type: object
```

The option `default_descriptions` allows you to disable the default description for a schema (i.e. if there is no description/comment defined for an entity/class in the ontology). By setting the `default_descriptions` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties: {}
      type: object
```

### Including default schema properties

You may wish to include common properties for each even if not defined for the entity/class. Currently, the default properites that are added to each schema are `description`, `id`, `label`, and `type`. Additional default properties are included (`eventDateTime`, `quantity`, `isBool`) which are meant to provide examples are other common data types. For example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: string
        propertyB:
          type: integer
        eventDateTime:
          description: a date/time of the resource
          format: date-time
          nullable: true
          type: string
        quantity:
          description: a number quantity of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: number
        isBool:
          description: a boolean indicator of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: boolean
        description:
          description: small description
          nullable: true
          type: string
        label:
          description: short description of the resource
          nullable: true
          type: string
        id:
          description: identifier
          format: int32
          nullable: false
          type: integer
        type:
          description: type(s) of the resource
          items:
            type: string
          nullable: true
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `default_properties` allows you to disable the default properties for a schema. If one or more of the properties are defined for the class, however, the property will still be included in the OpenAPI YAML specification. By setting the `default_properties` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: string
        propertyB:
          type: integer
      type: object
```

### Generating property types as array of items uniformly vs. non-array when cardinality/restrictions warrant it

When a property can have multiple items (e.g. a list of names), the property schema will always generate `type: array` with an `items:` key and sub-item types (e.g. `type: string`). However, in cases where the property is restricted by cardinality, the API spec can be generated so that the property is not an array but a single type (e.g. `type: string`). These cases include cardinality where the property is exactly 1 or is a maximum of 1.

The default is to treat everything as an array, such as:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `always_generate_arrays` allows you to disable the generating all properties with an array of items, if the class restrictions warrant it (e.g. there is exactly one property value allowed). By setting the `always_generate_arrays` value to `false`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

### Generating list of required property/properties for a class, when cardinality/restrictions warrant it

When a property is known to be required based on class restrictions (e.g. exactly 1 or a minimum >= 1), OpenAPI specification supports a `required` key directly under the property. By default, OBA does not generate this required list of properties (for each class), for example:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
```

The option `required_properties_from_cardinality` allows you to generate this list based on class restrictions (e.g. there is exactly one property value or there is a minimum of 1 or more of the property value). By setting the `required_properties_from_cardinality` value to `true`, the above example becomes:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    YourClass:
      properties:
        propertyA:
          items:
            maxItems: 1
            minItems: 1
            type: string
          type: array
        propertyB:
          items:
            maxItems: 3
            type: string
          type: array
      type: object
      required:
        - propertyA
```
