docs/result.md, before:


OBA generates two directories:

1. servers: it contains the OpenAPI specification and server implementation
2. queries: it contains all the queries.

## Query directory

The queries directory contains the queries files. These files are been generated by OBA.

There are three types of directories inside the queries directory: 

1. Default queries (_default_): contains the default queries generated by OBA. 
2. Custom queries (_custom_): Sometimes the OBA user needs more flexible, the custom directory contains these special queries.
3. By classes: OBA creates a query directory per class. It allows to OBA user to modify the default queries for the class. 

!!!info
    The server uses the query from the default directory. Unless, the query exists in the class directory.
                       

### Default queries

OBA generated the following queries:

- get_all: Get all the resources of a type `GET /persons` in the DataStore.
- get_all_user: Get all the resources of a type `GET /persons?username=USER` in the graph **USER**.
- get_one: Get the resource ID `GET /persons/ID` in the DataStore.
- get_one_user: Get the resource with the `GET /persons/ID?username=USER` in the graph **USER**.

The queries for POST, PUT and DELETE cannot be modified.

## Server directory

The servers directory contains:

- [File] OpenAPI specification `openapi.yaml` 
- [Directory] Server implementation (default: python)

Commit message:

Half of the documentation revisited

docs/result.md, after:


OBA generates two directories:

1. servers: Contains the OpenAPI specification and server implementation
2. queries: Contains all the generated queries.

## Servers directory

The servers directory contains:

- [File] OpenAPI specification `openapi.yaml` 
- [Directory] Server implementation (default: python)

## Queries directory

The queries directory contains the query files that are automatically generated by OBA. There are three types of directories inside the queries directory: 

1. Default queries (_default_): contains the default queries generated by OBA. 
2. Custom queries (_custom_): In some cases, users need to implement custom queries that are not the default instances of a class of the ontology (e.g., get all instances of a class that comply with certain conditions). In these cases it is more effective to allow users implementing their own SPARQL queries. The custom directory contains these special queries. See more details in [the custom queries documentation](https://oba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/adding_custom_queries/).
3. Classes: OBA creates a query directory per class. It allows users to modify the default queries for each class in case it's necessary. 

!!!info
    The server will use the query from the default directory unless the query exists in the class directory.
                       

### Default queries

OBA generates the following queries for each class. We show the examples assuming the class **Person**:

- get_all: Get all the resources of a type.  `GET /persons`.
- get_all_user: Get all the resources of a type.  `GET /persons?username=USER` in the graph **USER**.
- get_one: Get the resource of a given type with a given ID `GET /persons/ID`.
- get_one_user: Get the resource of a given type with the `GET /persons/ID?username=USER` in the graph **USER**.

The queries for POST, PUT and DELETE cannot be modified.
